this video is for scratch builders and
anyone who wants to have a better
understanding of anna-marie standards
how they work and why they're important
to modelers what we're hoping to do is
dispel a few myths about the standards
mainly one is that there there's
something wrong with them and actually
there's there's nothing wrong with the
standards they work very well I think
the the biggest problem over the years
is people misinterpreting the standards
and not applying them properly and
hopefully with us this video we can
clear up some misconceptions about the
standards and how they work
mainly that the standards are all
interrelated with each other the numbers
you see on the screen here every one of
those numbers is relative to the number
beside it so you can't really adjust one
number and not affect the others
especially in the flange way and we hope
to explain that in this video
yeah and we'll summarize with a case
study of an actual turnout and show how
the numbers can be moved around and how
they relate to each other
I'm just going to do a quick summary of
the terminology I'm gonna use in these
videos so you know what I'm what I'm
talking about when I refer to various
parts of a turnout what we're looking at
here is an 800 scale number 8 coded d3
turnout and it's a nice generic one and
that'll it will suit our purposes for
these videos I'm going to work from the
outside in and I'll start with the stock
rails showing here in green next from
the outside in would be our guardrails
and these flank the the 2 stock rails on
the outside next will be the closure
rails shown here I this is a shorter
turn out I didn't bother drawing the
switch points or anything beyond the
Frog as that's beyond the scope of what
these videos are going to refer to but
the do closure rails are also connected
to the points and terminate at the wing
rails shown here now the the two wing
rails flank the Frog point rails shown
here and another area that I'm going to
be referring to quite often is the front
point sumen real tight here which the
Frog point is a sharp point on the end
of our Frog rails and one other area I
wanted to discuss is the flange way not
really a part on the turnout more of an
area and I've highlighted that area here
in green the flange way is the space
between the Frog point rails and the
wing rails and just as the name
describes that's where the flange of the
wheel ride down and that pretty well
covers it
what we're looking at here is a typical
set of wheels specifically these ratio
scale RP 25 cold 110 wheels are p 25
refers to the NMR a recommended practice
that governs the shape and design of the
tread at the flange the 110 or the code
110 is the width of the wheel from the
back of the wheel to the outside of the
wheel and that's a fairly key number in
designing a turnout in fact the the
width of the wheel tread really is what
drives the design of a whole turnout as
you'll see as we get further into the
video the the flange way is the
relationship between the wheel tread and
the flange weighs is key and we try and
make that flange way with as small as
possible to work well with the wheels
that we're running on it so it really
does drive the design of a whole turnout
there is another size they may be
familiar with their old 88 wheel sets
sometimes referred to as has fine scale
wheels and they're pretty much the same
design except for they have a finer
tread on it like this it's eighty eight
thousand seven inch and as you'll see
that using a narrower wheel on a
standard turnout can cause some
operational issues and I'll explain a
little more detail further in the video
of what those issues are and how we can
work around them the key sizes on a on a
set of wheels are the check gauge and
the back to back gauge the check gauge
shown here is a measurement from the
back of one of the wheels shown here
that's the the back of the flange to the
inside edge of the tread shown here in
green and that's our check gauge and
that check gauge is is a number that's
relative to the check gauge on a turnout
and they work they have a relationship
between the two for our purposes we
really aren't concerned with that number
really is the best we can do is just set
the wheel gauge to the nra standards and
using the standards Cajun that should
give us a set of wheels that will run
great on any turnout that's built around
the anna-marie specs the other size is a
backpacker measurement and like it
sounds that's the distance from the back
of one wheel tread showing a green here
to the back of the other wheel tread
showing a green here and again it has a
corresponding dimension on a turnout
which is referred to in the specs as the
span on the turnout that's the same as
the back to back distance here and
controlling that distance the back to
back is key to make sure that the wheels
will work well with the with the turnout
and explain that more detail in the
further in the video